hello friends welcome back
so today we are going to discuss one of
the market leader in the general
insurance sector
we are going to do a detailed analysis
of the company and we will see how much
potential is available in this general
insurance company before starting if you
are new to this channel please subscribe
this channel so that you will get
regular update and you will learn how to
do a detailed analysis of any stock
and how to identify the value buying
opportunity in this talk so let's start
our discussion
so today we are going to discuss about
icici lombard general insurance company
this is the annual report of icici
lombard and i would like to share few of
the key points about the overall
industry and how this industry is
underpenetrated what will be the future
prospects of these insurance companies
so as far as the india general insurance
industry is concerned is fourth largest
insurance market in asia and 14 largest
globally as per the sigma swiss re
report and india is significantly under
penetrated market with a premium as a
percentage to gdp being a major one
percent so it is a very under penetrated
market as far as the total insurance
sector is concerned it is just one
percent when you compare the total
premium as a percentage of gdp of the
country
and from a non-life insurance density
perspective the per capita premium is
near us dollar 90. so the per capita
premium is also very low and if you
compare it with the developed country
like u.s they are the premium per capita
stands at us dollar five thousand seven
hundred and fifty four so there is a
huge gap between india and the country
like u.s now as far as the non-life
influence is concerned india is the
fifth largest non-life insurance market
in asia and it is 14th largest non-life
insurance globally this is the data of
addressable market and as per the
density where we stand so if you can see
as far as the addressable market is
concerned life insurance premium as a
percentage of gdp in u.s it is nine
percent in south korea it is 5.2
and in india it is just one percent
there is a direct gap of 5 to 10 x
compared to the developed country and as
far as the per capita premium is
concerned in u.s we have already
discussed that it stands at u.s dollar
in india at just 19 and countries like
south korea uk and japan they are far
ahead compared to india so again there
is a direct future growth prospect as
far as the total insurance sector is
concerned we have already made a video
on life insurance company where we have
discussed two companies which are market
leader in the life insurance sector you
can watch that video also to understand
how much potential is available so in
this video we are discussing the
non-life insurance company that is icici
lombard so as far as icici lombard is
concerned let's see the product and the
services which they provide so under
corporate solution group they they have
the solutions like fire insurance marine
insurance engineering projects insurance
liability solution employee group
insurance cyber insurance and health and
personal accidents insurance now as far
as the government and the rural business
group is concerned they have a solution
like insurance against cattle protection
weather
mass health personal accident and the
motor insurance and in the retail group
they have the solutions like health
insurance home insurance motor insurance
travel cyber and personal accident
insurance they have a well diversified
products portfolio they cater to
corporate group government and ruler
business groups and the retail sector in
india we have discussed about the
overall industry and we have seen that
this is a one of the under penetrated
sector in india and there is a direct
growth potential of 10 next to 20 x
going forward in next 10 20 years and as
far as the icici longboard is concerned
they have a well diversified production
services portfolio catering to multiple
customers in india now let's understand
few of the more key parameters as far as
the fundamentals are concerned and after
that we will discuss the financials
parameter of icsa lombard and see how
company has performed in recent past so
icici lombard general insurance company
limited is one of the leading and
established private sector general
insurance companies in india and it
offers a well diversified range of
product and risk management solution
through multiple distribution channel as
far as the credentials are concerned
over the last three years the company
has issued approx 2.5 crore insurance
policies on an average and it it shows
policies to individual corporate
government and to the customer that we
have already seen in the annual report
now as far as the market share is
concerned as on december 2021 the
company holds 8.3 percent share of the
total general insurance industry largest
and the market leader in the general
insurance sector and it is fourth
largest player in the general insurance
sector now as far as the q3 f5 22 is
concerned the company has significant
market share in various commercial lines
such as fire which stands at 13
engineering they have a market share of
15 percent marine cargo they have a
market share of 18 and liability they
have a market share of 16 so again they
have increased the market share and few
of the product line which they are
catering to and as far as the portfolio
backup is concerned as per q3 f522 the
company gross return premium is stands
around 14 300 crore so that is a huge
number and it includes motor damage that
is 22 percent of gross return premium
followed by motor third party premium
that is 22 percent then health and
travel and personal accident that is 22
fire that is 17 percent marine three
percent crop and others stands at five
and nine percent respectively now they
have a multiple distribution channel and
companies key distribution channel are
direct sales they have individual agents
corporate agents like bank and other
corporate agents motor insurance service
providers that i that is misp's brokers
and digital channels these insurance
company whenever they are getting the
premium from the customer they used to
invest in different different financial
instruments so as for as per fi 21 the
company has a total investment of 30 800
crore and it consists of corporate bonds
that is 42 percent of the total
investment followed by the government
securities that is 38 percent and equity
of 14 percent recently they have
acquired bharti extra general insurance
this is a good strategic plan of
acquiring healthy extra general
insurance which ultimately increase the
market share of icici lombard so we have
discussed the fundamental of isia
longboard general insurance let's
analyze the financial and see how
company has performed in recent past so
market capitalization of icici lombard
stands at 61 800 crore and they have a
healthy roc of 27 percent and debt to
equity stands at just three percent so
that is a good sign as far as the total
finances are concerned now as far as the
last 12 months profit is concerned they
have given the last 12 month profit of
1300 crore that is again a healthy
profit and the free cash flow available
with icici lombard stands at rupees
1695 crore now one of the most important
point if you can see the sales growth of
last five years stands at 16 profit of
last five years stands at 24 percent the
company has shown a consistent growth in
last five years as far as the sales
growth and the net profit is concerned
now as far as the quarterly result is
concerned currently they have posted the
highest ever revenue which stands at
4000 pro and again they have posted a
consistent net profit in last two
quarters so in september 2021 they have
posted the highest ever net profit of
447 growth and in december 2021 they
have posted a net profit of 318
now as far as the profit and loss
statement is concerned in march 2010 the
sales was only
2193 crore and currently stands at 15
168 crore that is it really 12 months of
sales so in last 10 years they have a
tax there sales and the revenue now as
far as the net profit is concerned in
march 2010 the net profit was only 144
growth and currently stands at
1473 crore as on march 2021 so they have
shown a consistent growth in terms of
revenue and net profit now as far as the
balance sheet is concerned
they have improved the reserves also
over the period of last 10 years so in
march 2010 the reserves were only
1389 crore and currently as on march
2021 the reserve stands at 8 500. now as
far as the shareholding pattern is
concerned promoter holds 48.05 percent
as on december 2021 fi holds 28.12
percentage dii holds 13.47 percent and
public holds mere
10.36 so the shareholding of public in
the last 12 quarter has reduced from 23
percent and currently stands at 10.36
that is a very good sign most of the
shares are in the strong hands of
promoter fiis and diis so in recent past
we have heard and seen many news about
the fia sellings in the market but if
you can see these fundamental strong
companies the fi has increased the
shareholding in last 12 quarters so
again that is a good sign and bii also
has increased their shareholding in last
12 quarters so the financials of icici
longboard is very strong and they have
shown a consistent growth
in sales and the net profit in last few
quarters now let's analyze the
technicals and see how much potential is
available in ici longboard this is a
chart of ici lombard so currently icici
longboard is shading at a very strong
support point of price level one two six
zero so this is the strong support price
level which i have drawn and which is
shown in a horizontal white color so
this was the resistance of icaci
longwear so they have shown a strong
resistance at the same price level
multiple times and after giving the
breakout from this price level the stock
has taken a multiple support at the same
price level and because of that only it
is a strong resistance and support line
currently the stock is trading as we
have seen the company has shown a
consistent growth as far as the finances
are concerned and we have also seen the
fundamentals of the company and the over
of an insurance sector which has a huge
future growth potential going forward
still the good part is icici lombard is
currently available at a 2.5 years old
price level so at the same price level
it was trading in the month of june 2019
so that is a very good opportunity we
are getting these stocks like i say long
bar at the very cheap valuation and the
second point is i say say lombard is
currently trading below the 200 moving
average curve line so this is this white
curve is a 200-day moving average and
currently stock is trading below the
200-day moving average so again that is
again a very good sign
now icici lombard has posted the
all-time high price level of 1671
and because of the recent market
correction the stock prices has
corrected by few percentage so in last
few months we have seen the overall
market correction and because of that
only the stock has corrected by almost
30 percent so these two three points
like the stocks available at a very old
price of 2.5 years and the second is it
is currently available below the 200-day
moving average because of the market
correction and the fundamentals and the
financials are very strong with the
combination of all this point we can say
that this is a very good opportunity
currently available in icic long bar now
as far as the technical target is
concerned from current price level up to
the all-time high price level of 1671
there is direct potential of 32 percent
this is the first target currently
available in icici longboard now as far
as the technical chart pattern is
concerned it has formed a reverse head
and shoulder pattern so this is the
neckline and the second support line of
price level 1429 and it has formed a
reverse added shoulder pad and let me
draw this is the left shoulder this is
the head and this is the right shoulder
and if we can take the depth of this
reverse side and shoulder pattern up to
the neckline and take this step and put
it on the neckline we will get our
second potential target of price level
two zero three seven so in i says a long
word we have got the first technical
target of all time high price level of
one six seven one and we have got the
second target on basis of reverse head
and shoulder pattern of the price level
2037 and which is giving a direct
potential of 60 percent so that is a
huge potential available in i say say
bombard i have invested my money for a
long term potential gain of 60
so let me again repeat the potential
target available in iso cell longboard
so the first target is 1671 with a
potential gain of 32 percent and the
second target is 2037 with a potential
gain of 60 percent but when i am saying
i am an investor in buyer and i say say
longboard this is not a buying or
selling recommendation kindly do your
due diligence and consult your financial
advisor before investing in stock here
we learn how to do a detailed analysis
of any company which includes the
fundamental financials and the technical
analysis we have discussed all the three
analysis in this video and we have seen
that icici lombard is a great company
and performed very well in the past few
years currently having a great potential
available in icici lombard because of
the recent market correction and this is
currently available at a 2.5 years old
price
so i hope you have liked this video and
i will see you in next video
you